Currently, I have two different career paths that I'm going on. One is
my Navy Reserve career and the other one is my computer science career.
In the Navy Reserve, I'm an Electrician's Mate Chief. I've been
in for 17 years, 16 going on 17 years and I became a Chief, which is
pretty high level, it an E7, out of E9 total. Those are the career
steps, so, E1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and I am an E7. It took ten years to get
there and I've been a Chief for the last six years. So, to become
a Chief, it requires a lot of hard work and dedication and being an
expert at your job, that's, you know, the title of what we're supposed
to be. We're supposed to be able to show our junior sailors how
to do things because we've done it so much ourselves. So, to get to
that point, it took a lot of watch standing, it took a lot of drills,
it took a lot of marching around, it took a lot of reading books,
it took a lot of opening up, you know, presentations and information
sheets about my job, during times that I didn't have to. I think that's
the difference between a lot of Chiefs who make it and some people
who don't, what you do on your free time. If you really care about
your career, then, during your free time, you're not just going to
watch DVDs and watch movies and play cards and just go on drums. You're
actually going to spend some time trying to be advanced to the
next grade, to the next promotion level. As far as my civilian career,
that's me being a master's student at the University of Southern
California, it took a whole lot even more, even more than the military,
it took a lot more dedication, homework, assignments, test preparation.
On my free time, I would spend so much time just staying up
all night, just doing these homework assignments. Even after the test
was over, I'd still open the book and, kind of like, get those questions
that I didn't understand on the test, I would get those questions
again to review, to try to understand what it is, what the class
was trying to explain. So, this is math questions, science questions,
even English questions. I would present an English assignment and
then I get it back and, you know, "These are all the mistakes that
you made." So, I'd open up my Central Texas College, you know, handbook
and I'd say, "Oh, there should have be a quotation there, there
should have been a semicolon there", so, even simple things like that.
And all of this is in order to become an expert at whatever it
is I'm learning. So, as long as you make sure that you have that final
goal in mind, which is to be an expert at whatever it is that you're
doing, then you'll become a high level, you'll wind up at USC at
a master's course or you'll be a Chief or higher in the military.